---
layout: stickie
title: Autocompletion in vi
meta: vi-7.3
---

{{title}}

# Overview

Vim has some powerful autocompletion features. Out of the box autocompletion for insert mode is a *sub mode* which you access using *Ctrl X*. If you view the help file:

:help ins-completion

Autocompletion can draw it's matches from many different sources. Below is a list of sources ( taken from the help file ), which I am going to delve into.

1. Whole lines						|i_CTRL-X_CTRL-L|
2. keywords in the current file				|i_CTRL-X_CTRL-N|
3. keywords in 'dictionary'				|i_CTRL-X_CTRL-K|
4. keywords in 'thesaurus', thesaurus-style		|i_CTRL-X_CTRL-T|
5. keywords in the current and included files		|i_CTRL-X_CTRL-I|
6. tags							|i_CTRL-X_CTRL-]|
7. file names						|i_CTRL-X_CTRL-F|
8. definitions or macros				|i_CTRL-X_CTRL-D|
9. Vim command-line					|i_CTRL-X_CTRL-V|
10. User defined completion				|i_CTRL-X_CTRL-U|
11. omni completion					|i_CTRL-X_CTRL-O|
12. Spelling suggestions				|i_CTRL-X_s|
13. keywords in 'complete'				|i_CTRL-N|

# The dictionary
On Mac OSX Lion, the dictionary files are located at
  /usr/share/dict/words

  :set dictionary='/usr/share/dict/word'

# The thesaurus
Unfortunately, the thesaurus on a Mac is stored in a binary format, so is inaccessible to vim.

# Included files
This option lets you include words from other files in the include path, if you use ctags, this is almost not necessary in my mind.

# Tags
Vim's autocomplete can use the tags file generated by ctags to give you a match, this is very, very useful.

# Definitions and macros
Not really sure how this works

# Completing vim commands
This is really just for when you are writing vimscript and want to autocomplete some vim command, it doesn't work in Visual Mode or Command line mode.

# User defined completion
This function looks like it could be really powerful as it lets you define your own custom function for autocompletion. Perhaps the topic of another post :)
There are lots of different approaches and solutions to autocompletion in vim. My personal favorite as of this time is a plugin called supertab  which makes it super easy to autocomplete using words that are

  Bundle ervandew/supertab
